The first 25 speakers from leading tech companies across Africa have been announced for the upcoming Africa Tech Summit Kigali. The pan-African tech event, supported by the Rwandan Minister of ICT and RwandAir, will take place on 14th & 15th February 2018 at the Kigali Marriott Hotel. It is set to connect industry leaders from across Africa. Jean Philbert Nsengimana, Minister of Youth and ICT said recently “We are delighted to welcome the pan-African tech ecosystem for Africa Tech Summit Kigali 2018. We look forward to connecting with industry leaders and innovators, sharing our vision while gaining future insights from some of the brightest minds on the continent.” Some of the speakers announced include industry leaders from Facebook, Andela, BRCK, Taxify, AHL Venture Partners, Draper Dark Flow, Safaricom, Atlas Mara, BitPesa, babyl Rwanda, aKoma, kLab, iHub, Boomplay Music and What3words. More speakers are to be announced in the coming weeks. The two day tech event will explore the latest trends with over 50 expert speakers from across the continent delivering keynotes and breakout sessions featuring connectivity, Blockchain, African Mobility, Cloud, IoT, Investing, Solar, Mobile and Data, as well as Tech & Talent. Other features include Future Trends, mCommerce, Payments and Credit, Fintech, mHealth, EdTech, AgriTech, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Robotics, Virtual Reality (VR), Digital Media and Creative Tracks. The mission of Africa Tech Summit Kigali is to drive business and investment within the African tech ecosystem.  The event will showcase some of the most exciting ventures and connect key stakeholders from across the continent, while providing excellent insight and networking over two days, ending with a party in the hills of Kigali. Early bird delegate passes end on November 30th 2017. Get more details here  Winners emerge at the AppsAfrica.com Innovation Award 2017November 7, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Largest Africa technology showcase, AfricaCom, hits Capetown in NovemberOctober 30, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 50 finalists shortlisted for AppsAfrica Innovation awardsOctober 5, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments