Nigerian Wi-Fi startup, Tizeti, has announced a partnership with Facebook in Nigeria to launch hundreds of hotspots in public places across the country in the coming months. The aim is to expand the coverage of Express Wi-Fi, an initiative of Facebook aimed at expanding connectivity to under-served locations around the world. According a release sent to Outrepreneurs.com on Thursday, Tizeti’s Wi-Fi technology will be leveraged to expand Express Wi-Fi in Nigeria in areas where people gather and work. Such places include markets, cafes and public outdoor spaces. Anyone with a Wi-Fi enabled device and the ability to receive a one-time SMS will be able to use Express Wi-Fi without switching SIM cards or having a data plan. Commenting on the announcement, Kendall Ananyi, CEO of Tizeti, said: “We look forward to launching this partnership with Express Wi-Fi, which allows us to continue our mission to bring affordable and reliable Internet to more Nigerians.” “Express Wi-Fi aims to reduce barriers to connectivity such as limited infrastructure and high data costs, giving more people, such as small business entrepreneurs and developers, the opportunity to connect and build community,” said Uche Ofodile, Regional Head, Africa, Express Wi-Fi by Facebook. “We’re excited to partner with Tizeti to expand access in Nigeria and roll out hotspots in the coming months,” She added. The Express Wi-fi plans range from N50 for 100MB to N2,000 for 10GB and include access to  Facebook Flex and Free Basics, which offers people access to impactful local services, including health resources, education, business tools and more. Express Wi-Fi is currently available in five countries including Nigeria, Kenya, Tanzania, India, and Indonesia. Facebook launches #SheMeansBusiness to train female entrepreneursMarch 28, 2018In "Entrepreneurship" Driving Innovation: Facebook to launch NG Hub in NigeriaNovember 23, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" NESG partners LAN, VC4Africa to hold pitches for entrepreneursSeptember 15, 2017In "Business" 0 comments