Medsaf, an online platform for medications for Africa’s pharmacies and hospitals, has won the Seedstars World Pitch held on Friday August 25, at Seedspace, Parkview Estate, in Lagos. Medsaf, an eHealth startup, was picked for its solution which gives Africans access to safe and cost-effective medications. Medsaf is a technology-enabled pharmaceutical platform connecting high quality, trusted manufacturers to the African medical industry and providing important drug information and facts. It will represent Nigeria at the Seedstars global summit holding at Switzerland, in April next year. eWorker, an online platform connecting companies with remote developers and  Edves, a digital platform managing processes for schools, won the second and third positions respectively. 10 Nigerian startups were invited to pitch to a panel of judges who selected the three winners. Also, during the pitch, the audience was allowed to vote via social media for the startup of their choice. Dropque, an online recruitment company which deploys unassisted video interviews and AI assessment assistant to help businesses recruit the best candidates, came first in the public voting session. Other participating startups included GETJAMA, a data collection technology startup, and Irecycle, an online platform offering cash for recyclable trash, Parcel-it, an on-demand logistics company, Safi.NG, a premium on-demand Dry Cleaners, Wallet.ng, a digital payments company and Wesabi, an online platform connecting users to reliable skilled workers and artisans. Medsaf co-founder, Vivian Nwakah, told Outrepreneurs she cried when her company was announced as the winner. She said: “I cried because I literally decided three years ago I wanted to go on a journey to find out how to help this country fix this issue. “Medsaf is a combination of the dreams that I had and pushed through against all adversities. Everybody told me it would not work and this was impossible. I kept pushing forward because I knew we deserved quality medication here in Nigeria.” The pitch was part of Seedstars World’s activities to visit over 70 countries, in order to identify early-stage startups in emerging markets and startups scenes. All the winners from different countries will compete for various prizes including up to $500,000 in equity investment at next year’s Seedstars summit. At the Lagos round, local partners for the pitch also rewarded winners with some prizes. The overall winner got 3 months of free internet services from Coollink, 1 year of software support from Upperlin and an opportunity to join the Nigerian Delegation in showcasing their services and products to a global audience at the ITU Telecom World 2017 in Busan, South Korea. Medsaf will also enjoy a $3000 offer from Aramex to send and receive parcels and correspondence, using Aramex’s shipping services which include International Express, Domestic Express, Shop and Ship, among others. comments