The narrative of the Nigerian youth is often focused on ill-fate. In an effort to counter that negative perception, a platform known as the Future Awards Africa is putting its spotlight on the aspirations, ingenuity, and feats of Nigerians between the ages of 18 and 31. Future Awards Africa was launched in 2004 as part of activities of a social enterprise, Future Project, set up with the aim of promoting strong, practical commitment to human and capital development, especially in Africa. The Future Project was conceived by the duo of Adebola Williams and Chude Jideonwo, co-founders of Red Media, a Public Relations (PR) and Communication Agency in Nigeria. The 2017 edition of the awards themed: “Nigeria’s New Tribe” was held last weekend at the Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos. Policy makers, entrepreneurs, diplomats, youths, and other stakeholders in the Nigeria project were in attendance. Adebola spoke about humble beginning when the first award ceremony was held on February 6, 2006 at the Muson Centre, Lagos. According to him, the hall the event held was almost shut because of 80,000 naira arrears. Though brief, Adebola’s message was a poignant reminder that young Africans should not lose hope in Africa. The same message about possibilities in Africa was highlighted when Adebola spoke at the Obama Foundation Summit in New York on November 2, 2017. “Africa is a very exciting place to live as a young entrepreneur. Nigeria, where I live, is a very attractive place to build business,” he told the audience. Adebola added that the ‘pungent smell of hopelessness’ on the continent is the reason why  young people in Africa are desperately leaving the continent for greener pasture in the United States, traveling to Italy for prostitution, and engaging in advanced fee fraud on the Internet. Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Vice President of Nigeria, was the special guest of honour at the award ceremony. He challenged the youths to build a new tribe devoid of ethnicity and corruption. “A new nation of great value is possible through the upcoming youths. The youths should rise up and defend themselves against corruption. “A new tribe can emerge with faith and principle; we need to redefine this nation. The youth are the future of the country, hence they must stand up for what is right. We need not look back on this, we need strong youth that are free from corruption.” 21 young outstanding Nigerians from different walks of life were honoured at the awards ceremony.  comments