A digital hub for persons living with disabilities was launched on Tuesday in Lagos, Nigeria. Project Enable, a Nigerian civic organization, set up the digital hub with the support of the U.S. Government Alumni Engagement Innovation Fund of $25, 000. The United States Consulate General in Lagos also provided additional funding of $4,401 for the hub. Acting United States Consul General, Darcy Zotter attended the opening of the hub held at the Lagos office of the Joint National Association of Persons with Disabilities (JONAPWD). According to a statement from the U.S.  Consulate in Lagos, the technology and entrepreneurship hub seeks to promote the empowerment and social inclusion of persons with disabilities. It will provide volunteer opportunities to young people with disabilities while serving as a center for their continuous development in entrepreneurship. Speaking at the event, Zotter said that promoting disability rights is an integral part of promotion of human rights. She explained that discrimination against people with disabilities is not only unjust but hinders economic development and limits democracy and social cohesion. “We are happy to identify with this initiative, which seeks to promote the empowerment and social inclusion of persons living with disabilities in Nigeria,” said Zotter. “Through this technology and entrepreneurship hub, over 250 people with disabilities will have free access to inclusive technology. “An additional 20 young persons with disabilities will be trained and mentored in various technology-based skills at the hub.” The U.S Department of State created the Alumni Engagement Innovation Fund (AEIF) in 2011 to support the public service projects of U.S Government exchange alumni teams. In 2017, AEIF awarded 68 grants of up to $25,000 each to different alumni teams worldwide, including Project Enable. Mr. Olusola Owonikoko, a 2016 Mandela Washington Fellow and 2014 Fellow of the Carrington Youth Fellowship Initiative (CYFI), is the founder of Project Enable. This is One Nigerian Startup’s Answer to Climate ChangeFebruary 1, 2018In "Entrepreneurship" Nigeria's New Tribe: How Future Awards Africa is celebrating the enterprise of young peopleDecember 13, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Product Hunt Launched in Lagos Tech EcoSystemMay 22, 2017In "Events" 0 comments