Chairman, Heirs Holdings, and United Bank for Africa, Tony Elumelu, has received the 2017 Dwight D. Eisenhower Global Entrepreneurship Award for his contribution to the growth and development of entrepreneurial innovation and talent in Africa. Elumelu was honoured with the award yesterday in New York, United States of America by Business Council for International Understanding (BCIU), a nonpartisan, U.S.-based organization working to expand international trade and commerce. Founded by President Dwight D. Eisenhower as a white House initiative on November 10,1995, BCIU skillfully leverages its global knowledge and broad network of business and government contacts to facilitate dialogue and initiatives that foster global commerce and economic development. Peter Tichansky, Chief Executive Officer, BCIU, was quoted by local media as saying that Elumelu was chosen for the award because of his can-do mindset and exemplary leadership in the field of entrepreneurship. “He embodies the idea that companies must take the lead in bringing business and society together. His advocacy is proving that businesses, acting as businesses and not charitable donors, are the most powerful force for addressing social challenges and economic development,’ said Tichansky. In his response, Elumelu said the award will further move him to encourage and support hardworking and ambitious entrepreneurs. “I hope that this recognition and award will further inspire other endowed Africans and friends of Africa who want to give and support Africa in the 21st century to do so in a manner that helps to economically empower our young ones, encourage our women, make sure that we work together for an inclusive prosperity, one that touches everyone almost evenly.” He added. Elumelu dedicated the awards to his family and the staff of Heirs Holdings, UBA, and his other companies for working with him to make Africa great.  Tony Elumelu Foundation set to host 1000 entrepreneurs in LagosSeptember 18, 2017In "Business" Aliko Dangote: Resilient investors can overcome challenges in AfricaOctober 24, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Transforming Africa: Entrepreneurs can apply for Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship 2018 ProgrammeJanuary 16, 2018In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments