Barely two months after entering the ride hailing space in Nigeria, Alpha1 Rides has received recognition as it bagged two awards within three days. The awards were presented by student associations in the University of Lagos (unilag) on their popular Dinner Nights. Held at the Ostra Event Centre, the first award was presented by the Faculty of Arts on the night of October 24th while the second was given by the Faculty of Engineering three days later on the 27th at Quadosh Events Centre, Oregun in Lagos. Both awards were in recognition of the company’s customer friendly services and continued support for students who have had need to use its services. “Alpha1 Rides embodies the spirit of humane entrepreneurship that puts customer service before the profit motive”, said Olaniyi Opeyemi, president of the Faculty of Arts Students Association, “and we are extremely glad and privileged to be associated with you”. In line with Opeyemi’s avowals, Adejumo Segun, president of the Engineering Students Association, thanked Alpha1 Rides for free rides offered students in Unilag, describing the company as “the first to recognise that students need help in these hard times”. While wishing the company well, he called for other companies to think in line with Alpha1 Rides and be empathetic to students who may have difficulty meeting some of their everyday needs. Receiving the awards on behalf of Alpha1 Rides, Azuka Millicent of Customer Service thanked the associations and remarked that the award is a motivation for the company to do more in the customer service sphere. “Thank you very much for this wonderful award of recognition, we wish to double our efforts in providing the best services to the students of Unilag”, she said. Headlining performance at the events was Comedian, Seyi Law, supported by other actors like Brainee, Kenny Blah, and comic, Woli Arole. Holyswagger of KRAKSTV was the host of the Engineering Students event. Alpha1 Rides joined the Cab hailing fray in Nigeria on September 1 and has since arrested the attention of industry players and riders with innovative services and customer friendly tariffs. This has led to the company slicing off a chunk of market share from current players, according to persons familiar with the industry. Upon entry, the company promised addressing some of the niggling problems in the industry and assuage some of the frustrations caused by older players. Alpha 1 Rides Set To Disrupt Ride Hailing Business In NigeriaAugust 11, 2017In "Business" ReadySetWork 2.0 prepares students in Lagos for outside world, as UNILAG plays hostAugust 9, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" LAUTECH beats 4 universities to win first ever Professor Ayodele Awojobi Design CompetitionJuly 21, 2017In "Events" 0 comments