Residents of Durban can now have great foods delivered to them fast as UberEATS, the online meal ordering and delivery service, an offshoot of Uber, taps into its parent network of partner-drivers to deliver freshly prepared meals from restaurants around them. The food delivery app, which has reached over 500,000 downloads since its launch in South Africa a year ago, currently operates in Cape Town, Stellenbosch, Johannesburg, Pretoria and most recently, Durban. In Durban, the app works in the CBD, Durban North, uMhlanga, Morningside and the Ballito areas, and the restaurants include: RocoMama’s, Afro’s Chicken, Bombay Blu, Pop-Up Society, Spiga D’Oro, Silverani’s, McDonalds, Kauai and KFC. “Durbanites love food so we are excited to expand to the city as we know they have been waiting in anticipation. We look forward to making life more tasty, accessible and more convenient. The app gives diners access to whatever they like with benefits of customized orders. From sushi to doughnuts or burgers, we’ve got more than 69 cuisines customers can choose from across Durban, Gauteng and Cape Town. General Manager of UberEATS Middle East & Africa, Nic Robertson said. While other food delivery apps have a minimum amount for orders to be processed, one can order any amount of food on Ubereats and it gets delivered. Restaurants can tap into the UberEATS delivery network to expand their businesses and reach a new network of customers. Delivery partners also have access to even more flexible earning opportunities. UberEATS says it delivers across 1,422km2, has more than 35 000 different items to choose from, and takes an average delivery time of 33 minutes. First time users around Durban can use the code “HELLODURBS” to enjoy free delivery for three orders, valid for two weeks.  Make way for Delivery Bros. This startup wants to solve logistics challenges across Africa, one city at a time.August 18, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Social delivery startup, Dropbuddies, eyes expansion into AbujaOctober 16, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" With Ofadarice.com, it's goodbye to 'plastic rice'July 25, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments