All is set to host the giants in Africa’s telecoms and technology domain at the 20th anniversary of AfricaCom. Three days of thought-provoking content and amazing tech from the 7th to 9th of November, 2017, at the Capetown International Conference Center, South Africa, with over 13,000 attendees expected, AfricaCom is the place for companies to raise their profile, showcase their latest solutions and meet the right decision makers with purchasing power. One of the most important aspects of the event is the AfricaCom Awards to celebrate the achievements of the best companies, solutions, products and personalities improving connectivity and driving Africa through the fourth industrial revolution. Categories and nominees include: Best Network Improvement This award recognizes the most successful initiative from an operator and/or a vendor that has significantly improved the performance or coverage of a network in Africa since the end of November 2016. Nominees are: Delivering Excellence in Customer Experience Placing the customer in the spotlight, this award recognizes a company or initiative that has provided a compelling customer experience. That could be through developing an integrated customer experience management (CEM) strategy, utilizing data innovatively, or considerably improving mobile user experience. Nominees are: Best Network Function Virtualization Solution This award is open to companies capable of demonstrating successful use cases of virtualization technology/network and be able to share the details of facilitating this deployment in the past 12 months. Companies should have devised an innovative use case of the solution to make it successful. Nominees in this category are: Changing Lives Award This is where ICT meets socio-economic development and inclusion. This award will celebrate a product, initiative or social enterprise that is having a life-changing impact on individuals or communities in the region. In this category, the following are nominated: Most Innovative LTE Service/Application Deployment This award recognizes the best LTE core network development solutions, which will aid development of the core to support LTE networks & services that will be deployed over them. Companies should be able to demonstrate/showcase user case study where the solution has been used and share details of why and how it’s been successful. The nominees are: Best Innovation in Broadcast – Broadband Convergence This award is for the most innovative product or service in which video content is being distributed across Africa. This could be a new OTT service, or a technology that provides an enhancement in the way content is being viewed on the continent. Nominees are: Most Innovative Service “The Business of Tomorrow” This prize recognizes a popular new offering which, from conception to execution, has been an innovation. It could be for the consumer or the enterprise markets, and could be messaging, mcommerce, video, etc. It must be in an African market, and should have offered significant new prospects for revenue growth and customer satisfaction. This category’s nominees are: Outstanding Data Management or Analytics Solution This award is for any product or service that can help operators and/or enterprises more effectively store, manage, protect or analyze their data. The nominees include: Fintech Innovation Award This award recognizes an innovation in Fintech that has shown potential for both scalability and sustainability. Judges will also look for an innovative business model that addresses real market needs such as unbanked communities and women in rural areas. Mobile financial service aspects include money transfer & remittance, cross border remittance, mobile banking, mobile wallets & NFC and contactless transfer, peer to peer or at the point of sale. Nominees are: IoT Product / Service of the Year This award will showcase the best platform or deployment of an IoT solution, focusing on the business requirements, integration and benefits gained. The nominees in this category are: Orange Social Venture Prize Entries for the Orange Social Venture Prize, which rewards entrepreneurs developing products or services that use ICT in an innovative way to meet the needs of people in Africa or the Middle East in fields such as health, agriculture, education, energy, industry or trade are now closed. Winner will be announced during the event. CXO of the Year Award This award will go to a public vote online building up to AfricaCom, rather than to the judging panel. It recognizes outstanding contribution in the field of telecoms & ICT within an African listed company or an organization with operations in at least one African country. The nominees are: Speakers include top executives from reputable companies like Ken Okwero, Head of Strategy, SafariCom, Jonathan Ayeche, General Manager, Uber, Jason Njoku CEO, IrokoTv, Velma Corcoran, Regional Market Manager, Airbnb. Lead stream sponsor is Microsoft, while SquidNet, premier network provider for the internet of things in South Africa is also lead stream sponsor for IoT devices. Exhibitors include Orange, Radware, Niagara Networks, Eutelsat among others. Attendance is free and registration is still ongoing.  50 finalists shortlisted for AppsAfrica Innovation awardsOctober 5, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Africa Tech Summit 2018 Unveils First 25 speakersNovember 23, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" AppsAfrica Innovation Awards now open for ApplicationsJuly 5, 2017In "Events" 0 comments